Park Murals to be censored
It appears that the mural on the bath house at La Raza Park in North Denver will be allowed to remain, but all future paintings will have to be approved by the “proper authorities.” The Denver City Council has passed an ordinance which requires all artists wishing to paint a mural on a public building to secure a permit and obtain approval from the department in question. In the case of the park murals, the artists will have to receive permission from the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board. This is a seven member board appointed by the mayor. Roberto Lucero, designer of the La Raza Park mural, told El Diario he doesn't agree with the ordinance. “It gives them the power to censor the creativity, freedom of expression and culture of the people,” he said. Denver Director of Parks and Recreation Joe Ciancio said that the ordinance was adopted to prevent artists from painting murals which do not meet with the approval of the community. He said that he had received a number of complaints against Lucero's mural. When asked about the mural at La Raza Park, Ciancio said “We wouldn’t approve of this type of drawing; it shows no professionalism." Lucero questioned Ciancio’s statement that the
residents had complained against the painting at La Raza Park. When he was painting at the park, more than 100 persons helped him. They included all ages ranging from the neighborhood children to mothers and fathers from the community, he said. No one has complained to the artist, he said. The disputed mural is on the bath house of La Raza Park in an area of Denver heavily populated by Chicanos. The painting is one of Aztec symbols, but they express the elements of an eternal struggle. In the center of the mural is the face of the sun, Tonatiul; to the Aztecs, a source of life. The stalks of corn Hanking the sun are reminders that it was the cultivation of corn which permitted the Aztecs to become involved growers. Before they had been food gatherers and hunters. The serpents on the left of the sun are symbolic of all the positive things in life. In Aztec mythology, two fiery serpents carried the sun around the earth. On the right is a large jaguar, symbolic of all that is negative in life. At the base of the mural is a landscape of the Aztec pyramids near present day Mexico City. This, Lucero says, gives the mural atmosphere; it places the mural symbolically where it actually is geographically, in Aztlan. This is the way Lucero explains the symbolism: but, he said, “It also symbolizes a lot of other things too political forces in the community self determination and community control.” City Councilman Eugene DiManna told Lucero that he had received complaints that the mural represents only one ethnic group in the community, Lucero said. “It is an educational service to all peoples who want to better understand the background of Chicano," Lucero said in answer to this charge. The painting took nearly four months to complete. On the second day of painting, they were told by members of the Denver Police Department that they couldn’t paint the mural without permission, and that if they continued they would be arrested. The police never returned to arrest the artists, Ciancio told the La Raza Park pool manager, Antonio Archuleta, that he would be fired if the painting continued. He doesn't expect to be rehired next year.
The Aztec Face of the Sun at La Raza Park in Denver is symbolic of the source of life. The mural has been the center of a dispute for more than four months.